# Responses to reviewers

## Editor's comments

The language and the interpretations are still too narrow. The reviewer suggest
a more general discussion of what this data set says about the stability of
species interactions to cause a co-phylogenetic signal.

> TODO

I follow the reviewer's comment and suggest additional elements to strengthen
the ms. -- note that the discussion is too short (only one page!) and it should
be expanded at least to another page.

> We have expanded the discussion (xx, yy) by ...

There are several ways to expand it. For example, methods used here do not
mention a whole branch of tangled trees methods to study potential mechanisms of
cospeciation underlying matching phylogenies (Page, D. M., Ed. (2003). Tangled
trees. The University of Chicago Press. Chicago.). On pp 42, 6 hypotheses are
suggested in the evolution of host-parasite associations (Pure cospeciation,
Duplication switching, Cospeciation-duplication, Cospeciation-sorting,
Cospeciation-switching, and mixed patterns with cospeciations, duplications and
switches) -- Can authors discuss a bit more about such (or other) potential
hypothesis underlying the observed patterns of co-phylogenetic matching?

> TODO

What are the mechanisms decoupling the local and the continental scale patterns
of the cophylogenetic signal? Check for example a neutral model that predict
strong signal removing completely interaction selection from the underlying
processes (Coelho, M. T. P., Rodrigues, J. F. M. and Rangel, T. F. 2016. Neutral
biogeography of phylogenetically structured interaction networks. – Ecography
doi: 10.1111/ecog.02780).

> We have added a discussion of this recent article. We think that some
methodological differences between the two articles make them difficult to
compare in depth, but we have drawn the reader's attention to the fact that
interaction probability (and therefore their contribution to the cophylogenetic
signal) should be analysed at the interaction level.

Locally sampled communities rarely showed strong matching despite the fact that
the overall system does at the continental scale -- How does this connect to the
"Parasite Paradox"? (i.e., parasites are generally specialized on a given set of
hosts, but host shifts to distantly related hosts may occur frequently, Janz, N.
(2011). Ehrlich and Raven revisited: mechanisms underlying codiversification of
plants and enemies. Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution and Systematics,
42:71-89). Please discuss the potential role of dispersal limitation and host
switching as additional processes to the ones driven by the abiotic conditions
and species tolerances. Specifically, this should be put in the context of how
to fill the big gap between the small-scale biological processes and ecological
interactions for predicting large-scale associations between host and parasites
as reflected in the phylogenies.

> Discuss, but this is speculative

## Reviewer 2

Poisot and Stouffer have done a nice job revising their manuscript. The
revisions improved clarity and I think the manuscript makes a nice contribution.
I am not a specialist in this area, so I am trusting the author’s use of
appropriate co-phylogenetic methods.  I do think that additional text first in
the methods (delineation of regions, number of regions) and on the implications
of the results would help the non-specialist reader (of which I am one) place
the findings into context. Having said that, I have a few minor comments that
are aimed to doing this, but overall I think the manuscript is in excellent
shape and is well-worthy of publication.

27: birds

> Fixed.

54: This would only seem to be true in cases of co-evolution.  It seems possible
that a keystone species could have powerful interactions that shape the
evolution of a number of different taxa.

> Discuss.

Line 94: I get that this means 51 local sites.  How were regions were
delineated?

> We have clarified the definition of what we mean by "regional scale" at XX.

203-206: What percentage of the host-parasite interactions in the dataset would
be considered co-evolutionary from a phylogenetic perspective (at the
continental scale)?

> No idea how to adress this.

220-223: I had a lot of trouble understanding this.  Would this be correct?: …if
some driver acts to maintain the interaction between pairs of species at
matching points in the phylogenies the local networks should demonstrate a
higher degree of co-phylogenetic matching.

> Yes, fixed.

284: from

> Fixed.

286:…than they are by potential species interactions (at least relative to
regional scales). Hard to say about the relative importance of drivers in an
absolute sense.

> Fixeed.

290: Assuming that the signal of co-phylogenetic signal is considerable in this
data at the continental scale (see comment for lines 203-206) I think you could
add an even broader statement here speaking to the relationship between
macro-evolutionary patterns and ecological communities.  Perhaps something along
the lines of: “It also draws into question the stability of co-evolutionary
interactions over long timescales.  We assume these interactions were once
strong enough to drive speciation and now they are no longer strong enough to
overcome local ecological processes.”

> TODO

295:..at ecologically relevant spatial scales, even in system where phylogenetic
structure would be expected to have a profoundly strong role” I think adding
something like this to help drive the point home would help.

> TODO

Fig. 3: units on the x-axis could use some explaining in the figure legend (not
just main text).

> TODO
